## Metadata

title: Government scheme Uttrakhand
owner: Research Team
version: 1.0.0
type: Article
created: 2026-01-13
last updated: 2026-01-16
Source reliability -  10/10
## Content

# Uttarakhand Mukhyamantri Saur Swarojgar Yojna (MSSY) | Govt Schemes India

> ## Excerpt
> Overview of Scheme Name of Scheme Uttarakhand Mukhyamantri Saur Swarojgar Yojna (MSSY) Launched Year 2020. Benefits The bank is offering loans for solar power plants at 8% interest rate. Grants ranging from 15-25 % are provided on a district-wise basis. The government has set a fixed price for purchasing electricity generated from the plant.

---
-   [Add new comment](https://www.govtschemes.in/uttarakhand-mukhyamantri-saur-swarojgar-yojna-mssy#comment-form "Share your thoughts and opinions.")

Highlights

-   Uttarakhand government provide following benefits to the beneficiary of Uttarakhand Mukhyamantri Saur Swarojgar Yojna:-
    -   The bank offers loans to beneficiaries at a low 8% interest rate.
    -   If a beneficiary wants to set up a solar power plant using their own funds or a bank loan, they'll get a government grant.
    -   Beneficiaries don't have to pay stamp duty when selling land or converting lease deeds.
    -   Beneficiaries receive seeds for beekeeping and growing local produce from the department.

Customer Care

-   Uttarakhand Mukhyamantri Saur Swarojgar Yojna Helpline No.:- 7618544555
-   Uttarakhand Renewable Energy Development Agency (UREDA) Contact No.:- 0135-2521386
-   Uttarakhand Renewable Energy Development Agency (UREDA) Helpdesk Email:- spv.uredahq@gmail.com

| Overview of Scheme |                                                                                                               Overview of Scheme                                                                                                                |
|--------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|   Name of Scheme   |                                                                                              Uttarakhand Mukhyamantri Saur Swarojgar Yojna (MSSY)                                                                                               |
|   Launched Year    |                                                                                                                      2020.                                                                                                                      |
|      Benefits      | -   The bank is offering loans for solar power plants at 8% interest rate.
-   Grants ranging from 15-25 % are provided on a district-wise basis.
-   The government has set a fixed price for purchasing electricity generated from the plant. |
|    Beneficiary     |                                                                                                            Resident of Uttarakhand.                                                                                                             |
|    Nodal Agency    |                                                                                             Uttarakhand Renewable Energy Development Agency (UREDA)                                                                                             |
|   Mode of Apply    |                                                                                              Eligible applicants can apply through online portal.                                                                                               |

## Introduction

-   The Uttarakhand government has introduced several welfare schemes for the resident of Uttarakhand.
-   These schemes aim to enhance the quality of life for people in Uttarakhand.
-   One such scheme is called the "Uttarakhand Mukhyamantri Saur Swarojgar Yojna (MSSY)."
-   This scheme was launched by Uttarakhand government in the year 2020.
-   The main aims of government is to provide financial aid to residents for establishing solar power plants on their land.
-   Beneficiaries can install solar plants ranging from 20 to 200 kilowatts in capacity.
-   Uttarakhand Power Corporation will purchase the electricity generated by the beneficiary for 25 years.
-   They will pay a fixed price of Rs 4.64 per unit for the electricity.
-   With a 25 kW plant, beneficiaries can earn up to Rs 70,340 annually, based on estimated costs.
-   The government will provide a loan covering 70% of the total plant cost through a nationalized or cooperative bank.
-   Residents are required to contribute the remaining amount as their share.
-   Banks will provide loans to beneficiaries for 15 years at an 8% interest rate.
-   If someone wants to build a solar power plant using their own money or by getting a loan from a bank, the government will give them extra money as part of the scheme.
-   Beneficiaries will get extra sources of income through herbal plant cultivation, local vegetable gardening seeds, and suitable benefits for beekeeping.
-   Applications for the Uttarakhand Mukhyamantri Saur Swarojgar Yojna (MSSY) can be made through the [official website](https://msy.uk.gov.in/) of the Uttarakhand Mukhyamantri Saur Swarojgar Yojna.
-   During application, beneficiaries are required to deposit an application fee of Rs. 2000 for 50/100 kilowatts and Rs. 5000 for 200 kilowatts.
-   At the district level, the Uttarakhand Mukhyamantri Saur Swarojgar Yojna (MSSY) offers margin money/grant eligibility ranging from 15% to 25%.
-   After application, each district committee will verify the applications.
-   Successful applications in the verification will be issued allocation letters by the department.
-   Initially, the department issued allocation letters to 1000 applicants.
-   Beneficiaries need to pay a Contract Performance Guarantee (CPG) within 30 days of project allocation: Rs. 25,000 for 50 kW, Rs. 50,000 for 100 kW, and Rs. 1 lakh for 200 kW, to the UREDA office for 2 years.
-   If a beneficiary does not pay the CPG amount on time, their allocation will be canceled.

## Benefits of the Scheme

-   The following benefits will be given to the eligible beneficiary under the Uttarakhand Mukhyamantri Saur Swarojgar Yojna:-
    -   The bank will offer loans to beneficiaries at a low 8% interest rate based on their eligibility.
    -   If beneficiary wants to set up a solar power plant using their own funds or a bank loan, they will receive a grant from the government as part of the scheme.
    -   Beneficiaries will be exempt from paying stamp duty when selling land or converting lease deeds, in line with MSME regulations.
    -   Additionally, the department will supply beneficiaries with seeds for beekeeping and cultivating local vegetables and herbs on their land.

## Eligibility Criteria

-   Applicants must meet the following eligibility requirements to avail the benefits under the Uttarakhand Mukhyamantri Saur Swarojgar Yojna:-
    -   The applicant must be a resident of Uttarakhand.
    -   The minimum age of the applicant should be 18 years.
    -   Eligible applicants include youth, females, unemployed individuals, rural residents, and farmers of the state.
    -   Only one member per family can apply for this scheme.

## Documents required

-   The documents required for the Uttarakhand Mukhyamantri Saur Swarojgar Yojna include:-
    -   Aadhar Card.
    -   Domicile
    -   Land related documents.
    -   Bank Account details.
    -   Project related details.
    -   Passport Size Photo.
    -   Affidavit.
    -   Copy of draft/NEFT of prescribed fee.
    -   Khasra Khatauni/Lease Deed related letter (if available).

## How to Apply

-   Eligible beneficiaries can apply online for the Uttarakhand Mukhyamantri Saur Swarojgar Yojna through the [online portal](https://msy.uk.gov.in/).
-   Visit the official website and select "[Uttarakhand Mukhyamantri Saur Swarojgar Yojna](https://msy.uk.gov.in/frontend/web/index.php)" from the home page.
-   Before applying for the scheme, register on the portal.
-   For registeration, select "[Register](https://msy.uk.gov.in/frontend/web/signup)" from the header section.
-   Fill out the registration form with the following details:
    -   Mobile No.
    -   Email.
    -   Full Name.
    -   PAN Card No.
    -   Aadhar No.
    -   Address.
    -   District.
    -   Pincode.
-   After successful registration, [log in](https://msy.uk.gov.in/frontend/web/site/login) to the portal.
-   Once logged in, the application form will appear on the screen.
-   Fill out all details correctly in the application form.
-   Pay the application fee according to the kilowatt capacity.
-   Application fee can be submitted through bank draft and NEFT:-
    -   For NEFT, deposit the fee in the account number: 4422000101072887, IFSC: PUNB0442200 in the Vidhan Sabha branch.
    -   Send the bank draft in favor of Director, UREDA, Dehradun to the district office within 10 days of application
-   Upload a scanned copy of the Affidavit and all required documents.
-   Before submitting the form, cross-check all details.
-   The list of applications received will be examined by the constituted committee.
-   The scheme allotment letter will be issued to those beneficiary who fulfill technical criteria.

## Important Links

-   [Uttarakhand Mukhyamantri Saur Swarojgar Yojna Registeration.](https://msy.uk.gov.in/frontend/web/signup)
-   [Uttarakhand Mukhyamantri Saur Swarojgar Yojna Login.](https://msy.uk.gov.in/frontend/web/site/login)
-   [Uttarakhand Mukhyamantri Saur Swarojgar Yojna Guidelines.](https://ureda.uk.gov.in/department2/library_file/file-22-07-2021-07-06-42.pdf?v=1)
-   [Uttarakhand Mukhyamantri Saur Swarojgar Yojna Affidavit.](https://www.govtschemes.in/sites/default/files/2024-03/%E0%A4%89%E0%A4%A4%E0%A5%8D%E0%A4%A4%E0%A4%B0%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%96%E0%A4%A3%E0%A5%8D%E0%A4%A1%20%E0%A4%AE%E0%A5%81%E0%A4%96%E0%A5%8D%E0%A4%AF%E0%A4%AE%E0%A4%82%E0%A4%A4%E0%A5%8D%E0%A4%B0%E0%A5%80%20%E0%A4%B8%E0%A5%8C%E0%A4%B0%20%E0%A4%B8%E0%A5%8D%E0%A4%B5%E0%A4%B0%E0%A5%8B%E0%A4%9C%E0%A4%97%E0%A4%BE%E0%A4%B0%20%E0%A4%AF%E0%A5%8B%E0%A4%9C%E0%A4%A8%E0%A4%BE%20%E0%A4%B6%E0%A4%AA%E0%A4%A5%20%E0%A4%AA%E0%A4%A4%E0%A5%8D%E0%A4%B0%E0%A5%A4.pdf?v=1)
-   [Uttarakhand Mukhyamantri Saur Swarojgar Yojna Website.](https://msy.uk.gov.in/frontend/web/index.php)
-   [Uttarakhand Mukhyamantri Swarojgar Yojna Website.](https://msy.uk.gov.in/)
-   [Uttarakhand Renewable Energy Development Agency (UREDA) Website.](https://ureda.uk.gov.in/)

-   Uttarakhand Mukhyamantri Saur Swarojgar Yojna Helpline No.:- 7618544555
-   Uttarakhand Renewable Energy Development Agency (UREDA) Contact No.:- 0135-2521386
-   Uttarakhand Renewable Energy Development Agency (UREDA) Helpdesk Email:- spv.uredahq@gmail.com
-   Office Address:- Uttarakhand Renewable Energy Development Agency (UREDA),  
    State Level Energy Park Compass,  
    Industrial Area, Patel Nagar,  
    Dehradun-248001


## Reference
https://www.govtschemes.in/allschemes/Uttarakhand